Captain Wheeler, who weighed 300 pounds, he's the
only guy I knew in the Army who had two pistol belts
around him. How'd they let him stay in? They waved
him. In the guard you could do that. He and I were
freshmen at A&M, four years there. After we worked
all day in the field, we'd go to the officer club and
have a few beers and we would have a ball. We had a
storm one night, one weekend. And it was a tornado.
And we were out there holding ropes and holding
tents. And mess halls were flying all over the
place. And damn, Wheeler would, Sam, call me on the
phone. The phones were still intact for some
reason. The field phone said, hey, you got any
privates you can send over to help hold the tent
down? I said, hell no. I'm holding the tent down
myself. So after that weekend, Monday night, we
worked all day getting everything straight.
Monday, we worked all day getting everything
straight. And then Monday night, we were all tired
and battered and beat. And we went to the officer's
club and had a few beers. And next thing I knew, Sam
Wheeler and I, Captain Wheeler and I, were in the
middle of the officer's club dance floor
imitating the generals. Yeah. And who walks in?
The generals. That never fails. And of course,
everybody in the, We knew everybody. We knew
everybody in the division.
And they walked in and we put on an act about the big
win. And we had apple crates on the floor like we
were in the general's chair. And we said, ah, well,
what's the troops doing down in the field? General
Wheeler, Captain Wheeler said, well, the damn
missile's blowing away. Let them blow away. We can
get some, you know. We made fun of them, see. And we
got through. The damn officer club just roared.
Just laughed like hell. And it all at once got
quiet. We looked around. There was General
Ainsworth and General Ives and General Simpson.
We didn't know what to do. General Miller walked
up, boy, and he clapped. And he says, do it again for
me. So every time we'd go to summer camp with their
guard, we had to put on that Big Win Act. So, you
know, we had a sense of humor.
I don't know where else we covered. All the
schools. Oh yeah, I went to... You went to
Communist Strategy School. And I wanted to talk, I
forgot to ask you about that. Tell me about this
Communist Strategy School. This is a About what,
1961 was it? Yeah, that's right. 62, 61. Went to
Washington. Went to the State Department. State
Department. They had openings. They had some
quotas for reserve officers. I went. And it dealt
with the communist countries. And at that time,
they knew the communists were trying to dominate
the world. And they wanted to make the military
aware of it. That's the purpose of it. It spent two
weeks there. Very, very interesting. And what did
they talk about? Did they talk about theory or
Marxist theory? Marxism. Marxism. Did they have
people come in and talk to you? Or did the State
Department itself? The State Department people
came in and talked to us. And they took each country
in South America and told us... gave us a
background on how the Marxists was in there and how
the communists was in there. And then they got into
European countries and they took each country.
And then they really didn't ever come up with a plan
what they were doing to counteract it. Did they
know? They really didn't know how to handle it. And
it was very interesting. What was your opinion of
the State Department personnel? Wasn't top
notch. It wasn't? No, it really wasn't.
They acted like they were in another government or
something. Really. They held themselves aloof
from us. Just the outset, they were aloof. I was
very disappointed in them. And then a book came
out. What was it? Decisions on the fifth floor.
That's where the State Department decision made
on the fifth floor of the state. Yeah, and so I read
excerpts of that and I can understand. In fact, the
guy that conducted the seminar talked with a
British clip. Yeah. So I didn't feel like he was
part of my government. But yet he was... Foreign
service officer, career foreign service
officer. Maybe he was educated in England. Maybe,
you know. Or maybe he had a lot of, maybe he had just
got back from years of service in England or
something like that. And picked up some of that.
Picked up and really had a strong, but I never felt
like they were part of us. I really didn't. I stood
aloof. I also went to the, I went to the nuclear... a
radiological nuclear damage course at Treasure
Island when I was a captain. I don't know why I went
to that damn thing. I was in the Guard. I guess they
had a quarter and wanted to send somebody, and I
went there, and we went on these ships that they had
at Utah. I don't know, out in the Pacific where they
were testing the nuclear bomb, the atom bombs. And
they had all these ships in there, and we had to get
on them. What year was this? This is in 48. It's not
even on there. No. So this is in 48? Yeah. During the
atomic test? Yeah. What's that island? Those
Antole Islands? I went in there. For some reason or
another, I took a nuclear corresponding course. I
thought it was interesting. Well, they call it the
atomic test. the course and I thought it was
interesting and I took it and had a lot of math in it
and I didn't like that. And then there was a Navy
commander out here in the reserve and he was taking
the same course and so we studied together. And
then I got a letter saying that I was eligible to go
to this nuclear defense course out at Treasure
Island. Would I be interested in going as an Army
representative? I said yeah. Two weeks on
Treasure Island. It was good duty. But you didn't
witness an atomic blast yourself? No, no. All we
did was went through the cyclotron out at Beverly,
not Beverly,
Berkeley. We went through everything, and that
was new, you know. So I did some pretty good school.
I went to some good schools. Good schools. I went to
the, not Sean either, doing World War II when it was
in England and the division artillery was levied
upon to send somebody to the mine damage school of
Great Britain. And that, the purpose of that was
how to deactivate mines. And Terry, they were
There were two people killed in the school in
several mains. So you know how I felt. All we had was
a bayonet and we probed the ground for the mines.
And then we also set the, we had to make up patterns
for mines. And we also had to detect the patterns.
And when we got in combat, we were supposed to, if
we're going across minefield, I was to be called up
as the expert and say, now the minefield is set this
way, this, This is the way we deactivate. See?
Yeah. Thank God I never had to do that. Did you ever
go to that school? Oh, yeah, I went to the school.
But you were never called on to go? Oh, I went
through the minefields. I don't know how I never
got my arm blown off. I was very cautious. Oh, I was
cautious. Oh, yeah, I went to the school. Oh, sure.
But you were never called upon to go and deactivate
a minefield? At school? In combat? No. I was too
busy forward observing. Yeah, I was too busy
directing artillery fire. What did you think of
the schools in general? They were good. Very good.
The Army schools are excellent schools.
Excellent. What do you think the best one was? War
College? War College. Oh yeah, that's the top
school. Oh yeah. I also went to the
counterinsurgency school at Fort Bragg.
Catherine went with me this time. Yeah, it was a
counterinsurgency. That was the special
forces school. When was this, early in the 60s?
I was a colonel. No, I was a lieutenant colonel. So
it must have been late 50s,
early 60s. And General Stilwell was a commandant.
And we, it was a seminar type thing. We studied
insurgency activities and how to, and also how, if
you drop behind the lines, how to organize the
indigent people and how to resist
counter-revolution and stuff. just what's going
on in El Salvador. I hope they don't call me back for
that. No. So I went to some good schools. I really
did. So I think this helped me along the way to
become a general officer. And I felt kind of
rounded out in education. To where I could hold my
own with anybody. I don't care who you are.
But I look back now, A&M
taught me, I repeat it many times,
self-discipline. It's extraordinarily
important. It is. And law and order. You've got to
be the law. Papa taught me that. Papa taught me to
love America and obey the laws. So
it gave me respect for authority, respect for
responsibility, people. And I was very fortunate
to have a daddy like that. Yeah. Oh, yeah. So all
of us brothers. I'm deeply grateful to A&M.
Great school. And I don't see anything wrong in the
way it's going now. Now, you know, I had mentioned
to you earlier about the Corps and maybe
those ones that don't want to get in the Corps could
go through the ROTC program. on second thought, it
wouldn't be right for the Corps. It would kill the
Corps. It would hurt them. Yeah, so I'm going to
withdraw that statement. Okay, well we didn't get
it on tape anyway. Didn't we? I don't know if we did
or not. No, we were talking about it in the kitchen.
Yeah, I guess we were. And if we did, then... Well,
we can cross it out, yeah.
What else? I'm done. I mean, I have exhausted my
questions, but is there anything else that you
think that's part of my... Well, it's that old
training now. Do you feel like we've gone in the
right direction in your... In the interview?
Yeah. Oh, yeah, absolutely. This ends our
interview then. Thanks a lot, General. I really
appreciate it. Well, I thank you, Terry. You've
been very nice and kind.